# Enemies Data
This section contains data about the enemies in Super Metroid.

## Folder Structure
This folder contains the [main.json](main.json) file, which contains data about all normal enemies, and [bosses/main.json](bosses/main.json), which contains data about bosses.

Another file, [bosses/scenarios.json](bosses/scenarios.json), contains detailed data about boss fight scenarios. Those are intended to be used to create boss energy requirements based on item loadout. They are described in detail at [the boss scenarios page](bossScenarios-readme.md).

## Contents of an Enemies File
Enemies files follow the schema defined at [/schema/m3-enemies.schema.json](../schema/m3-enemies.schema.json).

Each enemy file is an array of Enemies, and includes data about its weaknesses, immunities, damage and health, drop table, and more.

### amountOfDrops
Indicates the number of individual drops (from the enemy's drops table) that are generated by killing this enemy.

### areas
This property is intended to just be informative. It indicates what regions of the game have instances of this enemy.

### attacks
This is an array of attack objects, each of which describes an attack of the enemy. An attack can have the following properties:
* _name_: The name of the attack
* _baseDamage_: The base damage done to Samus by this attack when she is wearing only the power suit
* _affectedByVaria_: Indicates whether Varia suit applies its normal damage reduction to this attack. Should be considered `true` if missing.
* _affectedByGravity_: Indicates whether Gravity suit applies its normal damage reduction to this attack. Should be considered `true` if missing.

### drops
This is the enemy's drop table. [See the wiki for an explanation of drop tables](https://wiki.supermetroid.run/Enemies#How_Drops_Work).

In an enemies file, this takes the form of an object with the following properties (with the value being a drop rate out of 102):
* _noDrop_
* _smallEnergy_
* _bigEnergy_
* _missile_
* _super_
* _powerBomb_

### dims
An object describing the dimensions of the enemy. Contains the following properties:
* _h_: "The height of the enemy in pixels.
* _w_: "The width of the enemy in pixels.

### farmableDrops
This is the drop table of farmable particles spawned by the enemy. It will not be present if the enemy doesn't spawn farmable particles. [See the wiki for an explanation of drop tables](https://wiki.supermetroid.run/Enemies#How_Drops_Work)

In an enemies file, this takes the same form as `drops`.

### grapplable
Indicates whether Samus can use this enemy like a grapple block.

### damageMultipliers
An array of objects, each of which describes a resistance or vulnerability of the enemy. This takes the form of a damage multiplier. Has the following properties:
* _weapon_: The name of a weapon or weapon category
* _value_: The damage multiplier that applies to the weapon or category. This is a vulnerability if more than 1, and a resistance if less than 1.

Look up [weapons files](../weapons/weapons-readme.md) for more information about weapons and weapon categories.

### invul
This array contains weapons and weapon categories this enemy is invulnerable to.
Look up [weapons files](../weapons/weapons-readme.md) for more information about weapons and weapon categories.
